HOW TO RACE (BASIC RULES)
The player that qualified best starts.
On your turn, if your car is belly up (you crashed on your previous
turn) flip it over and pass the turn. You car doesn’t move.

A racing board game for 2 to 8 players by
Néstor Romeral Andrés

Otherwise, roll your dice the same way as in the qualifying round.
One of these three things can happen:
- You’ve rolled the same number twice but your car is not on a
corner. Your car does not move.

INTRODUCTION
Example: Yellow has rolled a second 5. Yellow doesn’t move.

nestorgames GP is a fast and furious racing game for 2 to 8
players, derived from TOP SPEED by the same designer, that
simplifies many aspects of its predecessor and also adds some fun
twists such as special items or shortcuts. It is a tribute to the
arcade racing games of the 80’s, such as SuperSprint or Nitro.

- You’re rolled the same number twice and your car is on a corner.
You’ve crashed! Apply the Crashing rule (see below). Your car
does not move.

MATERIAL (BASE GAME)

- You’ve stopped rolling so you don’t have repeated results: Add
up all the values of the rolled dice and move your car forward
exactly that many spaces along the track. Other cars don’t block
your movement.

- Board with racing track
- One racing car, one cylinder, 3 discs and 6 dice for each of the 8
colors.
- 2 turbines (turbo boost).
- 2 rockets
- 2 bombs
- 2 wrenches
- 4 oil spills
- One large tube for storage

SETUP
Place the board (circuit) in the middle of the playing surface. Set
the special items (gray) and the oil spills aside.

Example: Red moves 12 spaces (2+6+1+3)

Each player chooses a color and takes all items and dice of that
color (oil spills are black, but are not related to the black car).

If your car moves and ends its movement on a space occupied by
another car, you bump into it:

Determine a starting player for the qualifying round by any
peaceful means.

- If the space is a corner, you’ve crashed into all cars on that
corner. Apply Crashing to all those cars.

Each player, in counterclockwise order, does the following on her
turn:

- If the space is not a corner, move the car you bumped into one
space forward. If, as a result, that car bumps into another car
repeat the process. If any bumped car moves into a corner, it
crashes (apply Crashing to it). If there was another car (or more)
on that corner then all of them crash on that corner.

Roll one of your dice. Then you can opt to stop rolling dice or roll
another one, and so on until you’ve either stopped rolling dice or
you’ve rolled the same number twice. Notice that you can’t roll
more than 6 dice.
- If you have stopped rolling (you don’t have any repeated result)
add up all the values of your rolled dice. This is your qualifying
value.
- If you’ve rolled the same number twice instead, your qualifying
value is zero.
The player with the highest qualifying value goes first in the pit
lane, with the rest of the players going in the same order as they
are sitting and counterclockwise. Ties are resolved by additional
rounds.
Place the cars accordingly in the pit lane. Place the 3 discs of each
player on the ‘box’ adjacent to the square that their cars are.
Those are the lap counters. Some boards include additional
counters for longer races.

In general, cars on corners can’t move forward as a result of a
bump. They crash instead. As a result, there can be several cars
on a corner, but not or square spaces.
CRASHING
When a car crashes, flip it over belly-up, take one of its dice and
place it on its ‘box’ by the side of the pit lane. You won’t be able to
use the dice that are in your ‘box’ unless you Fix the car (see
below).
In general, cars only crash on corners. And every time a car
crashes it gets flipped over belly-up and loses a die.
CROSSING THE FINISH LINE
If as a result of the movement, your car has crossed the finish
line (after completing a lap; the first time does not count as it is the
start of the race), then take one of your discs from your ‘box’. If
you’ve taken your 3rd disc you have ended the race (can agree on
longer races). If you’ve been the first player taking all your 3 discs
you’ve won the race! The rest of the players can continue racing
until they finish.
FIXING YOUR CAR

Setup example for 4 players. Red won the qualifying round.

Instead of taking any action on your turn, you can recover one die
from you ‘box’, if any. Your car doesn’t move this turn.

nestorgamesGP rules, art and rulebook © 2021 Néstor Romeral Andrés

SPECIAL TRACK FEATURES

the finish line. If there is a car on the destination space just apply
the bumping rule. It is forbidden to place an item on a ‘T’ space.

The availability of these features depends on which track you’re
using.
THE SHORTCUT
Once per race, your car can take the shortcut instead of making a
full lap. This lap counts as a full lap for lap counting purposes.

THE SPECIAL ITEMS (UPDATED)
* These rules replace all previous editions. The tray is no longer
used. You can invent a rule for it.
If you take the shortcut, place your cylinder in your ‘box’. This is to
indicate that you can’t use the shortcut anymore.
Note: The small ‘triangles’ along the shortcut are not considered
‘spaces’.

Players can agree on using the ‘special items’ rules and which
items to use before playing the game.
Before the race starts, the last player in the pit lane places up to 4
oil spills on empty spaces of the race track.
Then, this same player places each special item on an empty
space of the race track. Bombs are placed facing up (active).
PICKING UP ITEMS
If, during the race, you car ends its movement on the square
occupied an item (except oil spills or bombs), take that item.

THE LOOP
The loop square must be crossed in a straight line (without
turning). If you stop on this square, leave the car pointing in the
correct direction so you know where to move on your next turn.
When bumping into a car on this cell, bumping rules are applied as
usual, but this means a car can be bumped away from its legal
path. In this case, the bumped car must continue racing in the new
direction on its next turn (indicated by the arrows). Notice that a
bump might result on the bumped car losing or gaining advantage.

HOW TO USE THE ITEMS YOU’VE PICKED UP
You can use one of your items before playing your normal turn.
- Rocket: Count the number of spaces in a straight line too the car
right in front of yours (if there is a corner in-between you can’t fire
the rocket). Roll one die. If the result is equal to or higher than the
distance to your target car, you hit it with the rocket and all the cars
in that space crash with all the consequences (belly-up, die lost).
Notice that you can make many cars crash at once if they’re all in
the same corner.
- Wrench: Recover all lost dice at once, flip your car over if it was
belly up, and then play the normal turn.
- Turbo boost: Play the turn as usual, but when moving, count
your highest die twice. Notice that if you can’t move (you’ve rolled
the same value twice) you lose the turbo boost.

THE GATE
During the setup phase, place the gate on the ‘Gate location’. It is
forbidden to place an item on a ‘Gate switch’ space (see images
below).

Example: Red uses the 6 twice, for a total of 18 movement points.

If your car moves and ends its movement on a ‘gate switch’ space
do the following:
- If the gate is placed on the ‘gate location’, remove it and set it
aside (the gate opens). Pass the turn to the next player.
- If the gate is set aside, place it on the ‘gate location’ (the gate
closes). Pass the turn to the next player.
If the gate is ‘open’, cars can take the gate shortcut when moving
(do not spend the shortcut cylinder).

A gate switch space.

Once used, place the item on the first unoccupied space behind
your car so it becomes available again.
BOMBS AND OIL SPILLS
- Bomb: If any car crosses or ends its movement on a space with
a bomb, roll one die. If the die scores 1, 2 or 3 the car crashes on
the bomb space. (belly-up, die lost) and the bomb is removed.
- Oil spill: If any car ends its movement in a space with an oil
spill the car slides in a straight line until it reaches a corner and
crashes (belly-up, die lost), together with all cars on that space if
any. Oil spills remain on the board for the duration of the race.

The gate location.

The turns on both sides of the gate are not considered ‘corners’
for collision purposes.

The Red car ends it movement on a spill, slides and crashes.

THE TELEPORT
If your car moves and ends it movement on a ‘T’ space move it to
the other ‘T’ space. By doing so, the car is not considered to cross
nestorgamesGP rules, art and rulebook © 2021 Néstor Romeral Andrés

CHAMPIONSHIP RULES

WET RACE

A championship consists of several races. Determine the winning
score for the championship (Recommended score is 3 times the
number of cars).

Place 4 oil spills exactly as shown in the pictures depending on the
track.

Being ‘n’ the number of cars in the race, the winner of a race
scores ‘n’ points, the second scores ‘n-1’ points and so on.
After each race, players add their scores to their accumulated
score for the championship. If at least one player reaches or
surpasses the winning score for the championship, the player with
the highest accumulated score becomes the world champion. Ties
are broken by the number of wins. If ties persist play a tie-breaker
race.

TEAMS
This variant can be played with an even number of players. Every
2 players form one team. Teams must be arranged before the
qualifying round. Racing order is irrelevant (just qualify as usual).
TEAM WINNING
Add up the race scores for all cars of each team to determine the
winning team. Ties are broken by the highest ranked car.

ADVANCED RULES
You can agree on using these rules (or some of them) before the
race starts.
ADDITIONAL SPECIAL ITEMS
You can use an extra set of special items.
SAFETY CAR
Whenever a player rolls a double six when in a curve or crashes
into a car already in a curve, a severe accident happens and the
involved cars lose all their dice (that they can recover in further
turns).
The virtual safety car is deployed. For 3 rounds straight apply the
following:
- The leading car can only roll one die.
- It is forbidden to overtake non-crashed cars or bump into any
car. This is, any movement that would result in overtaking noncrashed cars or bumping into any car must not be executed. It is
legal to overtake crashed cars, though.
- If a car has an accident during the safety car, a new safety car is
deployed and the 3-rounds count is re-started.
FASTEST TURN
Keeping track of the fastest lap requires some bookkeeping and it
makes the game slower and cumbersome. But you can keep track
of the fastest turn instead. Simply write down the highest roll
whenever it happens. At the end of the race, the player that
executed the highest roll wins half a point for the championship
(0.5 points).
Example: A player rolls 9 movement points and gets the fastest
turn. Later on during the game, a player rolls 12 movement points
and becomes the new record holder.

NOTES FROM THE DESIGNER
Prior to GP, I considered TOP SPEED to be my best multiplayer
game. It was bashed and trolled on Boardgamegeek because it
includes a mechanism used in another game (Incan Gold). As
using existing mechanisms is something usual in game design and
I enjoy this one so much, I’ve decided to use it again in GP.
However, I’m using dice instead of cards to simplify the
manufacturing and game play.
Notice that the maximum movement points seem to be 21, but
there is a way to move up to 28 spaces on your turn. And even
more! Can you see how?
The boards are so big because it’s possible for several cars to
collide on the same corner, so the track spaces are much larger
than the cars. Also I’ve opted for a minimalist design because I like
it.
I’ve updated the rules because the players always used the special
items variant (all items on the board), and I’ve also made the bomb
more dangerous.

nestorgamesGP rules, art and rulebook © 2021 Néstor Romeral Andrés

